Hello friends, I'm Rick Warren, and welcome to Spurgeon's Sermons.
This is the official podcast brought to you by Premier and Spurgeon's College.
You know the teachings of Charles Spurgeon have had a personal impact on my life in a profound way, and I'm confident they'll do the same for you.
So get ready to be challenged, equipped, and guided by Charles Spurgeon, who is universally regarded as the greatest English preacher in the history of the church.
the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, a sermon by Charles Spurgeon, part 4.
For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 6.
Thirdly,
Let us gratefully review the means of this knowledge.
How have we come at it?
That brings us to read the text again, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
Why did not everybody see the glory of God in Jesus Christ when he was here?
It was conspicuous enough.
Answer, it matters not how brightly the sun shines among the blind.
Now the human heart is blind.
It refuses to see God in creation, except after a dim fashion.
But it utterly refuses to discern God in Christ.
And therefore he is the despised and rejected by men and women.
Moreover, there is a God of this world, the Prince of Darkness,
And since he hates the light, he deepens and confirms the natural darkness of the human mind, lest the light should reach the heart.
He blinds people's minds with error and falsehood and foul imaginations, blocking up the windows of the soul, either with unclean desires or with dense ignorance or with pride.
The reason why we did not at one time perceive the glory of God in Christ,
was because we were blind by nature and were darkened by the evil one.
As only the pure in heart can see God, we being impure in heart could not see God in Christ.
What then hath happened to us, to eternal grace be endless praise, God Himself hath shined into our hearts.
That same God who said light be.
and light was, hath shined into our hearts.
You know, creation's story, how all things lay in darkness.
God might have gone on to make a world in darkness if he had pleased.
But if he had done so, it would have been to us as though it had never been, for we could not have perceived it.
And therefore he early said, let there be light.
Now God's glory in the face of Jesus Christ might have been all there, and we should never have discerned it.
And as far as we are concerned, it would have been as though it had never been.
If the Lord had not entered into us amid the thick darkness and said, Let there be light, then burst in the everlasting morning, the light shined in the darkness.
and the darkness fled before it.
Do you recollect the incoming of that illumination?
If you do, then I know the first sight you saw by the new light was the glory of God in Jesus Christ.
In fact, the light had come on purpose that you might see it.
And at this present moment, that is the main delight of your soul, the choice subject of your thoughts.
In the light of God, you have seen the light of the glory of God.
As it is written, In thy light, we shall see light.
One thing I want to say to comfort all who believe, Beloved, do you see the glory of God in Christ Jesus?
Then let that sight be an evidence to you of your salvation.
When our Lord asked His disciples
Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man am?
Simon Peter answered, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Now note the reply of the Lord Jesus to that confession.
Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood have not revealed it unto you, but my Father which is in heaven.
If thou can't delight in God in Christ Jesus, then remember,
No man can say that Jesus is the Christ but by the Holy Spirit.
And thou hast said it, and this morning thou art saying it, and therefore the Holy Spirit has come upon thee.
Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God.
Thou believeth this, and therefore thou art born of the Father.
Whosoever denyeth the Son,
The same hath not the Father, but he that acknowledges the Son hath the Father also.
Thou lovest God, and thou art his.
The Spirit of God hath opened thine eyes, and thou art saved."
So I finish by mentioning in the fourth place the responsibilities of this knowledge.
There have been considerable debates among the interpreters as to the precise bearing of this text.
And some of them think it means that Paul is giving a reason why he preached the gospel.
This makes the verse run thus, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts that we might give out again the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
God gave light to the apostles that they might show forth the light of the knowledge of God in the face of Jesus Christ to the nations.
I do not know whether this is the exact run of the text, but I know it is true anyhow.
Never is the gleam of light given to any man to hide away and to spiritual men the great object of their lives after they have received light.
is to reflect that light in all its purity.
You must not hoard up the light within yourself.
It will not be light to you if you do.
Only think of a person when his room is full of sunlight saying to his servant, quick now, close the shutters and let us keep this precious light to ourselves.
Your room will be in the dark, my friend.
So when a child of God
gets the light from Christ's face.
He must not say, I shall keep this to myself.
For that very desire would shut it out.
No, let the light shine through you.
Let it shine everywhere.
You have the light that you may reflect it.
An object which absorbs light is dark and we call it black.
But hang up a reflector in its place when the sun is shining.
and it will not appear black.
It will be so bright that you will hardly bear to look at it.
An object is itself bright in proportion as it sends back the light which it receives.
So you shall find, as a Christian, that if you absorb light into yourself, you will be black.
But if you scatter it abroad, you yourself shall be brilliant.
You shall be changed into the very image of the light which you have received.
You shall become a second sun."
I noticed last Sabbath evening when I came into this pulpit that at the angle of the building before me on the left hand the sun seemed to be setting, and I saw the brightness of his round face, and yet I knew it to be the wrong quarter of the heavens for the sun to be setting there.
Perhaps you will observe that there is a peculiar window on the other side of the street, and it was reflecting the sun so well that I thought it was the sun himself, and I could hardly bear the light.
It was not the sun, it was only a window, and yet the radiance was dazzling.
And so a man of God, when he receives the light of Christ, can become so perfect a reflector
that to common eyes at any rate, He is brightness itself.
He has become transformed from glory to glory, as by the image of the Lord.
Brothers and sisters, if you have learned the truth, manifest it and make it plain to others, proclaim the gospel, not your own thoughts, for it is Christ that you are to make manifest.
Teach not your own judgments and conclusions and opinions, but the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
Let Jesus manifest Himself in His own light.
Do not cast a light on Him or attempt to show the sun with a candle.
Do not aim at converting men and women to your views, but let the light shine for itself and work its own way.
Do not colour it by being like a painted window to it, but let the clear white light shine through you that others may behold your Lord.
Scatter your light in all unselfishness.
Wish to shine, not that others may say how bright he is, but that they, getting the light, may rejoice in the source from which it came to you and to them.
be willing to make every sacrifice to spread this light which you have received.
consecrate your entire being to the making known among the whole world the glory of Christ.
Oh, I would we had swift messengers to run the world over to tell the story that God has come down among us.
I wish we had fluent tongues to tell in every language the story that coming down among us
God was arrayed in flesh like to our own, and that He took our sins and carried our sorrows.
Oh, that we had trumpet tongues to make the message peel through heaven and earth, that God has come among men, and cries come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Oh, for a thunder voice to speak it,
or a lightning pen to write it across the heavens, that God has reconciled the world unto Himself by the death of His Son, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and that whosoever believes in Christ Jesus has everlasting life.
I cannot command thunder or lightning, but here are your tongues.
Go and tell it this afternoon.
Here is my tongue.
and I have tried to tell it, and may it be silent in the dust of death er it ceases to declare that one blessed message, that God in Christ Jesus receives the sons of men in boundless love.
Tell it, brother, with broken accents, if you cannot speak it more powerfully.
Whisper it, sister, gently whisper,
if to none other yet to your own little children.
And make the name of Emmanuel God with us to be sweet in your infancy as.
You are growing in strength and talent, young man.
Come, consecrate yourself to this.
And you with grey beard, when you lie down on your last bed to breathe out your spirit, tell the love of Jesus to your children.
that they may tell it to their children and hand it down to coming generations, that humanity may never forget that the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
God bless you, Amen.
Thank you for listening, friends.
This podcast was brought to you by Premier in association with Spurgeon's College.
For more Christian podcasts, sermons, and music, head back to the website premier.plus and sign in for free.